readme.adoc, before:

:toc:
:toc-placement!:
:toclevels: 4
= Complete Private Server Setup for E-Mail, Cloud and more
 
Here I describe my server setup, which provides the following services:

* E-Mail (https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/[Mailcow])
* Cloud (https://www.seafile.com/en/home/[Seafile])
* Dynamic DNS (https://github.com/dprandzioch/docker-ddns[dprandzioch/docker-ddns @ Github])
* OpenVPN (https://github.com/kylemanna/docker-openvpn[kylemanna/docker-openvpn @ Github])
* Offside Backup (https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/[Borg Backup])
* A simple HTML Webpage

This Setup is set behind http://www.haproxy.org/[HAProxy] and https://letsencrypt.org/[LetsEncrypt]. And is deployed with https://docs.docker.com/[Docker] and https://docs.docker.com/compose/[Docker-Compose], to keep it as simple as possible.

I'm not a professional administrator and I run this setup privately only.

This is not supposed to be a copy&paste tutorial, but will probably work as such as well.

toc::[]

== Requirements

* Server with a static IP Address
* Domain
* Little Home Server for Offsite Backup (Raspberry PI/Intel Nuc/Hetzner Storagebox)

I'm using a VPS (virtual private server) from https://contabo.com/?show=vps[Contabo], called 'VPS L SSD' and a Intel NUC, both with Debian 10.

IMPORTANT: You should secure your server and your ssh connection.

== Drawbacks
* Mailcow must be started before haproxy, because they share the mailcow network.

== Setup
=== Docker installation

First we need to install Docker and Docker-Compose.
These steps are well documented on the official docker website, so I will just link to them.

https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/debian/[Docker]

https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker-Compose]

=== Let's Encrypt/Certbot installation
Just like with Docker, there are enough instructions to install https://certbot.eff.org/[certbot].

Inside `cli.ini`, we configure Let's Encrypt.

./etc/letsencrypt/cli.ini
[source,bash]
----
rsa-key-size = 4096
email = yourmail@example.com
authenticator = standalone
domains = example.com, www.example.com, sea.example.com, autoconfig.example.com, autodiscover.example.com, imap.example.com, mx.example.com, smtp.example.com, ns.example.com
----

IMPORTANT: Under the point domains, we enter the url's for which we want to have an SSL certificate.

=== Folder Structure and Preparation
Create folder structure (you can customize the location if you want) and download the required files.
[source,bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/oyren/yet_another_complete_groupware_setup /root/docker
git clone https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized.git /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized
----


=== Configuration
Inside the `web` folder, you will find the `docker-compose.yml`.
I will split the files into parts to explain them, you have to replace `example.com` with your own domain and make other adjustments if necessary. 

==== HAProxy
Beginning with *HAProxy*, which we will use as a reserve proxy and which takes care of SSL.

.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
version: '3.5'
services:

        haproxy:
                container_name: haproxy
                image: haproxy:latest
                ports:
                        - "80:80" # <1>
                        - "443:443" # <2>
                volumes:
                        - ./haproxy.cfg:/usr/local/etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg:ro # <3>
                        - ./example.com.pem:/usr/local/etc/haproxy/example.com.pem:ro # <4>
                networks:
                        - gateway # <5>
                        - mailcowdockerized_mailcow-network
                restart: unless-stopped
----
<1> Bind http(80) host port to haproxy docker container
<2> Bind https(443) host port to haproxy docker container
<3> Forward haproxy.cfg with read only access
<4> Forward example.com.pem to use SSL Termination in haproxy (more about this later)
<5> gateway is the docker network to reach the other containers

As you can see, all http/https requests are routed through HAProxy.

SSL Termination is the practice of terminating/decrypting an SSL connection at the load balancer, and sending unencrypted connections to the backend servers.

IMPORTANT: You also need to edit the `haproxy.cfg` (search for example.com and adjust it).

==== Seafile
Next we have *Seafile*, which in my opinion is far better than Nextcloud.
Nextcloud tries to provide everything but nothing reasonable. Just my two cents.

.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
        db: #seafile_db
                container_name: seafile-mysql
                image: mariadb:10.1
                environment:
                        - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret_pw # Requested, set the root's password of MySQL service.
                        - MYSQL_LOG_CONSOLE=true
                volumes:
                        - ./seafile-mysql/db:/var/lib/mysql <1> # Requested, specifies the path to MySQL data persistent store.
                networks:
                        - seafile-net
            
        memcached:
                container_name: seafile-memcached
                image: memcached:1.5.6
                entrypoint: memcached -m 256
                networks:
                        - seafile-net
                      
        seafile:
                container_name: seafile
                image: seafileltd/seafile-mc:latest
                volumes:
                        - ./seafile-shared:/shared <2>
                environment:
                  - DB_HOST=db
                  - DB_ROOT_PASSWD=secret_pw # Requested, the value shuold be root's password of MySQL service.
                  - SEAFILE_SERVER_LETSENCRYPT=false   # Whether to use https or not.
                depends_on:
                  - db
                  - memcached
                networks:
                  - seafile-net
 
----
<1> seafile-mysql is the folder where seafile will store the database
<2> seafile-shared is the folder where seafile will store the data/config files

Seafile is well documented, so as always I will just link it https://manual.seafile.com/deploy/deploy_with_docker.html[here].
There you can find how to modify Seafile Server Configuration and so on.

Since HAProxy takes care of SSL, Seafile does not need to do this.

==== Dynamic DNS 

This docker allows you to set up a dynamic DNS server that allows you to connect to devices at home from anywhere in the world.

With this container you can sent a API request from your router (FritzBox in my case) and then you can reach your home network e.g. at home.dyndns.example.com (this will be needed for later offsite backup).
How this goes you will find later under the subsection `Usage` or under the good documentation from https://github.com/dprandzioch/docker-ddns[dprandzioch @ Github].

.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
        ddns:
                image: davd/docker-ddns:latest
                ports:
                        - "53:53"
                        - "53:53/udp"
                networks:
                        - gateway
                environment:
                        RECORD_TTL: 60
                        ZONE: dyndns.example.com # <1>
                        SHARED_SECRET: changeme # <2>
                restart: unless-stopped
----
<1> is your dyndns domain (NS-Zone)
<2> SHARED_SECRET must be provided each time you update a DNS record via the API


==== Simple Welcome Webpage
I wrote a small website to get faster access to the subpages like SOGo from mailcow and seafile.
.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
         example_webpage:
                build:
                        context: ./example_welcome # <1>
                        dockerfile: Dockerfile
                networks:
                        - gateway
                restart: unless-stopped
----
<1> folder where the Dockerfile is placed (you can easily change this)

The index.html and Dockerfile is placed inside the example_welcome folder and should be self-explanatory.

==== Mailcow

You should have already cloned mailcow.

And renew we can use the already existing documentation.

First follow the Prerequisites:

* https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/prerequisite-system/[Prepare Your System]

* https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/prerequisite-dns/[DNS Setup]


Check if `umask` returns 0022.

Then follow the instructions starting at point 3:

* https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/install/[Installation]

IMPORTANT: We use HAProxy as reserve proxy and to operate SSL, so there are some Important points in `mailcow.conf`, they are listed below. Skip `docker-compose up -d` for the moment.

.mailcow.conf
[source,bash]
----
HTTP_BIND=127.0.0.1
HTTP_PORT=8080
HTTPS_BIND=127.0.0.1
HTTPS_PORT=8443

ADDITIONAL_SAN=imap.example.com,smtp.example.com

# Skip running ACME (acme-mailcow, Let's Encrypt certs) - y/n
SKIP_LETS_ENCRYPT=y
----


==== DNS Records
This is how my DNS Records look like:
[source]
----
# Name                      Type        Value
example.com                 A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
                            CAA         letsencrypt.org
                            MX          mx.example.com
                            TXT         "v=spf1 mx ~all"
autoconfig.example.com      A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
autodiscover.example.com    A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
dkim._domainkey.example.com TXT         v=DKIM1;k=rsa;t=s;s=email;p=....
dyndns.example.com          NS          ns.example.com
imap.example.com            A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
mx.example.com              A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
ns.example.com              A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
sea.example.com             A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
smtp.example.com            A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
vpn.example.com             A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
www.example.com             A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
----


=== Get and renew SSL Certificate

IMPORTANT: Let's Encrypt certificates have a ninety-day lifetimes, so you have to renew them, before they expire.

You could run it through a cronjob regularly.

IMPORTANT: Also here you have to change `example.com` and the path if necessary.

[source,bash]
----
#!/bin/bash
# the ( ; ) part lets you execute a command from another directory in bash
# this makes it more reliable, as docker the folder name to name volumes
(cd /root/docker/web/ ; docker-compose down)
# Wait a few seconds, so there won't be any conflicts.
sleep 15
(cd /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/ ; docker-compose down)

certbot certonly --expand --non-interactive --cert-name example.com
cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem > /root/docker/web/example.com.pem
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/data/assets/ssl/cert.pem
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem  /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/data/assets/ssl/key.pem

(cd /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/ ; docker-compose up -d)
sleep 15
(cd /root/docker/web/ ; docker-compose up -d)
----
As you can see the certificate will be copied at 2 places, once for haproxy and for mailcow.



=== Startup
[source,bash]
----
docker-compose -f /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/docker-compose.yml up -d
docker-compose -f /root/docker/web/docker-compose.yml up -d
----

== Usage
Now you should reach the following services under the following links:

|===
| Services | url 

| Seafile | sea.example.com 
| SOGo | mx.example.com/SOGo
| Mailcow Admin/UI | mx.example.com
| Welcome Webpage | example.com 
|===

===== Dynamic DNS
With the following API request you can set a IPv4 or IPv6 address.
[source,bash]
----
https://ns.example.eu/update?secret=<yourpw>&domain=home&addr=1.2.3.4
----

* `secret`: The shared secret set before
* `domain`: The subdomain to your configured domain, in this example it would result in home.dyndns.example.com. 
* `addr`: IPv4 or IPv6 address of the name record

Then you can reach the registered IP under home.dyndns.example.com (1.2.3.4).

 https://www.davd.io/build-your-own-dynamic-dns-in-5-minutes/[Here] you can read more about it.

=== Troubleshooting/Debugging
You can view the logs of the individual containers simply with the following command:
[source,bash]
----
docker logs -f container_name
----

== Backup
As backup system I use borg backup, which runs on an intel nuc at my home.

I reach the intel nuc via ssh and the previously established dynamic dns service, to reach it i just had to forward the ssh port in my router settings to nuc.

IMPORTANT: You should secure your SSH Login. Among others, I use a public key authentication.


.One time initialization
[source,bash]
----
borg init --encryption=repokey ssh://serverbackup@home.dyndns.example.com:22/./backup
----

The backup is performed once a day (cronjob) and is based on the following script. Which should be understandable on the basis of the comments.

./backup/backup.sh
[source,bash]
----
#!/usr/bin/env bash

## Create log folder
mkdir -p /var/log/borg

##
## export enviroment variables
##

## Path to SSH Key
export BORG_RSH="ssh -i /root/.ssh/serverbackup_ed25519"

## Borg Repository Password
export BORG_PASSPHRASE="YOUR_BORG_Password"

##
## set the variables
##

## log file and path
LOG="/var/log/borg/backup.log"

## Backup user on your remote machine (intel nuc in my case)
BACKUP_USER="serverbackup"

## Backup location (/home/serverbackup/backup)
REPOSITORY_DIR="./backup"

## put everything together and hand over the domain under which the backup server can be reached 
REPOSITORY="ssh://${BACKUP_USER}@home.dyndns.example.com:22/${REPOSITORY_DIR}"

##
## Write output to logfile 
##

exec > >(tee -i ${LOG})
exec 2>&1

echo "###### Backup started: $(date) ######"

## Create list of installed software
dpkg --get-selections > /backup/software.list

## I use the path /backup to store the mailcow backups and the seafile mysqldump's
## create needed folders if not exist
mkdir -p /backup/seafile_database
mkdir -p /backup/mailcow/

## Mailcow Backup
## https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/b_n_r_backup/
export MAILCOW_BACKUP_LOCATION=/backup/mailcow
/root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/helper-scripts/backup_and_restore.sh backup all

## Seafile
## https://manual.seafile.com/deploy/deploy_with_docker.html
docker exec -it seafile-mysql mysqldump  -uroot --opt ccnet_db > /backup/seafile_database/$(date +%F_%R)_ccnet_db.sql
docker exec -it seafile-mysql mysqldump  -uroot --opt seafile_db > /backup/seafile_database/$(date +%F_%R)_seafile_db.sql
docker exec -it seafile-mysql mysqldump  -uroot --opt seahub_db > /backup/seafile_database/$(date +%F_%R)_seahub_db.sql

echo "Transfer Files ..."

## Here files and folders which are backed up and which are excluded are configured.
borg create -v --stats                   	\
    $REPOSITORY::'{now:%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M}'  	\
    /root                                	\
    /etc                                 	\
    /backup                              	\
    /var/spool/cron                      	\
    --exclude /root/docker/iota_iri/data 	\
    --exclude /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized	\
    --exclude /sys                       	\
    --exclude /var/run                   	\
    --exclude /run                       	\
    --exclude /lost+found                	\
    --exclude /mnt                       	


echo "###### Backup finished: $(date) ######"


## Cleanup
borg prune -v ${REPOSITORY}	 		\
	--keep-daily=7 				\
	--keep-weekly=4 			\
	--keep-monthly=6

rm -R /backup/mailcow/*
rm -R /backup/seafile_database/*
----

Borg Backup is also very well documented https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html[here].


This Script was shamelessly stolen by https://wiki.hetzner.de/index.php/BorgBackup[Hetzner] and adapted by me.

Commit message:

rebuild the container after html page update
added notes to rebuild the container after html page update

readme.adoc, after:

:toc:
:toc-placement!:
:toclevels: 4
= Complete Private Server Setup for E-Mail, Cloud and more
 
Here I describe my server setup, which provides the following services:

* E-Mail (https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/[Mailcow])
* Cloud (https://www.seafile.com/en/home/[Seafile])
* Dynamic DNS (https://github.com/dprandzioch/docker-ddns[dprandzioch/docker-ddns @ Github])
* OpenVPN (https://github.com/kylemanna/docker-openvpn[kylemanna/docker-openvpn @ Github])
* Offside Backup (https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/[Borg Backup])
* A simple HTML Webpage

This Setup is set behind http://www.haproxy.org/[HAProxy] and https://letsencrypt.org/[LetsEncrypt]. And is deployed with https://docs.docker.com/[Docker] and https://docs.docker.com/compose/[Docker-Compose], to keep it as simple as possible.

I'm not a professional administrator and I run this setup privately only.

This is not supposed to be a copy&paste tutorial, but will probably work as such as well.

toc::[]

== Requirements

* Server with a static IP Address
* Domain
* Little Home Server for Offsite Backup (Raspberry PI/Intel Nuc/Hetzner Storagebox)

I'm using a VPS (virtual private server) from https://contabo.com/?show=vps[Contabo], called 'VPS L SSD' and a Intel NUC, both with Debian 10.

IMPORTANT: You should secure your server and your ssh connection.

== Drawbacks
* Mailcow must be started before haproxy, because they share the mailcow network.

== Setup
=== Docker installation

First we need to install Docker and Docker-Compose.
These steps are well documented on the official docker website, so I will just link to them.

https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/debian/[Docker]

https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker-Compose]

=== Let's Encrypt/Certbot installation
Just like with Docker, there are enough instructions to install https://certbot.eff.org/[certbot].

Inside `cli.ini`, we configure Let's Encrypt.

./etc/letsencrypt/cli.ini
[source,bash]
----
rsa-key-size = 4096
email = yourmail@example.com
authenticator = standalone
domains = example.com, www.example.com, sea.example.com, autoconfig.example.com, autodiscover.example.com, imap.example.com, mx.example.com, smtp.example.com, ns.example.com
----

IMPORTANT: Under the point domains, we enter the url's for which we want to have an SSL certificate.

=== Folder Structure and Preparation
Create folder structure (you can customize the location if you want) and download the required files.
[source,bash]
----
git clone https://github.com/oyren/yet_another_complete_groupware_setup /root/docker
git clone https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized.git /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized
----


=== Configuration
Inside the `web` folder, you will find the `docker-compose.yml`.
I will split the files into parts to explain them, you have to replace `example.com` with your own domain and make other adjustments if necessary. 

==== HAProxy
Beginning with *HAProxy*, which we will use as a reserve proxy and which takes care of SSL.

.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
version: '3.5'
services:

        haproxy:
                container_name: haproxy
                image: haproxy:latest
                ports:
                        - "80:80" # <1>
                        - "443:443" # <2>
                volumes:
                        - ./haproxy.cfg:/usr/local/etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg:ro # <3>
                        - ./example.com.pem:/usr/local/etc/haproxy/example.com.pem:ro # <4>
                networks:
                        - gateway # <5>
                        - mailcowdockerized_mailcow-network
                restart: unless-stopped
----
<1> Bind http(80) host port to haproxy docker container
<2> Bind https(443) host port to haproxy docker container
<3> Forward haproxy.cfg with read only access
<4> Forward example.com.pem to use SSL Termination in haproxy (more about this later)
<5> gateway is the docker network to reach the other containers

As you can see, all http/https requests are routed through HAProxy.

SSL Termination is the practice of terminating/decrypting an SSL connection at the load balancer, and sending unencrypted connections to the backend servers.

IMPORTANT: You also need to edit the `haproxy.cfg` (search for example.com and adjust it).

==== Seafile
Next we have *Seafile*, which in my opinion is far better than Nextcloud.
Nextcloud tries to provide everything but nothing reasonable. Just my two cents.

.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
        db: #seafile_db
                container_name: seafile-mysql
                image: mariadb:10.1
                environment:
                        - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret_pw # Requested, set the root's password of MySQL service.
                        - MYSQL_LOG_CONSOLE=true
                volumes:
                        - ./seafile-mysql/db:/var/lib/mysql <1> # Requested, specifies the path to MySQL data persistent store.
                networks:
                        - seafile-net
            
        memcached:
                container_name: seafile-memcached
                image: memcached:1.5.6
                entrypoint: memcached -m 256
                networks:
                        - seafile-net
                      
        seafile:
                container_name: seafile
                image: seafileltd/seafile-mc:latest
                volumes:
                        - ./seafile-shared:/shared <2>
                environment:
                  - DB_HOST=db
                  - DB_ROOT_PASSWD=secret_pw # Requested, the value shuold be root's password of MySQL service.
                  - SEAFILE_SERVER_LETSENCRYPT=false   # Whether to use https or not.
                depends_on:
                  - db
                  - memcached
                networks:
                  - seafile-net
 
----
<1> seafile-mysql is the folder where seafile will store the database
<2> seafile-shared is the folder where seafile will store the data/config files

Seafile is well documented, so as always I will just link it https://manual.seafile.com/deploy/deploy_with_docker.html[here].
There you can find how to modify Seafile Server Configuration and so on.

Since HAProxy takes care of SSL, Seafile does not need to do this.

==== Dynamic DNS 

This docker allows you to set up a dynamic DNS server that allows you to connect to devices at home from anywhere in the world.

With this container you can sent a API request from your router (FritzBox in my case) and then you can reach your home network e.g. at home.dyndns.example.com (this will be needed for later offsite backup).
How this goes you will find later under the subsection `Usage` or under the good documentation from https://github.com/dprandzioch/docker-ddns[dprandzioch @ Github].

.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
        ddns:
                image: davd/docker-ddns:latest
                ports:
                        - "53:53"
                        - "53:53/udp"
                networks:
                        - gateway
                environment:
                        RECORD_TTL: 60
                        ZONE: dyndns.example.com # <1>
                        SHARED_SECRET: changeme # <2>
                restart: unless-stopped
----
<1> is your dyndns domain (NS-Zone)
<2> SHARED_SECRET must be provided each time you update a DNS record via the API


==== Simple Welcome Webpage
I wrote a small website to get faster access to the subpages like SOGo from mailcow and seafile.
.docker-compose.yml
[source,yml]
----
         example_webpage:
                build:
                        context: ./example_welcome # <1>
                        dockerfile: Dockerfile
                networks:
                        - gateway
                restart: unless-stopped
----
<1> folder where the Dockerfile is placed (you can easily change this)

The index.html and Dockerfile is placed inside the example_welcome folder and should be self-explanatory.

IMPORTANT: If you change anything on the html page, you have to rebuild the container. There are several ways to do this, I use the following command (service_name = example_webpage).
[source,bash]
----
docker-compose up -d --no-deps --build <service_name>
----

==== Mailcow

You should have already cloned mailcow.

And renew we can use the already existing documentation.

First follow the Prerequisites:

* https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/prerequisite-system/[Prepare Your System]

* https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/prerequisite-dns/[DNS Setup]


Check if `umask` returns 0022.

Then follow the instructions starting at point 3:

* https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/install/[Installation]

IMPORTANT: We use HAProxy as reserve proxy and to operate SSL, so there are some Important points in `mailcow.conf`, they are listed below. Skip `docker-compose up -d` for the moment.

.mailcow.conf
[source,bash]
----
HTTP_BIND=127.0.0.1
HTTP_PORT=8080
HTTPS_BIND=127.0.0.1
HTTPS_PORT=8443

ADDITIONAL_SAN=imap.example.com,smtp.example.com

# Skip running ACME (acme-mailcow, Let's Encrypt certs) - y/n
SKIP_LETS_ENCRYPT=y
----


==== DNS Records
This is how my DNS Records look like:
[source]
----
# Name                      Type        Value
example.com                 A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
                            CAA         letsencrypt.org
                            MX          mx.example.com
                            TXT         "v=spf1 mx ~all"
autoconfig.example.com      A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
autodiscover.example.com    A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
dkim._domainkey.example.com TXT         v=DKIM1;k=rsa;t=s;s=email;p=....
dyndns.example.com          NS          ns.example.com
imap.example.com            A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
mx.example.com              A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
ns.example.com              A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
sea.example.com             A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
smtp.example.com            A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
vpn.example.com             A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
www.example.com             A           1.2.3.4
                            AAAA        2222:1111:3333::1
----


=== Get and renew SSL Certificate

IMPORTANT: Let's Encrypt certificates have a ninety-day lifetimes, so you have to renew them, before they expire.

You could run it through a cronjob regularly.

IMPORTANT: Also here you have to change `example.com` and the path if necessary.

[source,bash]
----
#!/bin/bash
# the ( ; ) part lets you execute a command from another directory in bash
# this makes it more reliable, as docker the folder name to name volumes
(cd /root/docker/web/ ; docker-compose down)
# Wait a few seconds, so there won't be any conflicts.
sleep 15
(cd /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/ ; docker-compose down)

certbot certonly --expand --non-interactive --cert-name example.com
cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem > /root/docker/web/example.com.pem
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/fullchain.pem /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/data/assets/ssl/cert.pem
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/example.com/privkey.pem  /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/data/assets/ssl/key.pem

(cd /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/ ; docker-compose up -d)
sleep 15
(cd /root/docker/web/ ; docker-compose up -d)
----
As you can see the certificate will be copied at 2 places, once for haproxy and for mailcow.



=== Startup
[source,bash]
----
docker-compose -f /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/docker-compose.yml up -d
docker-compose -f /root/docker/web/docker-compose.yml up -d
----

== Usage
Now you should reach the following services under the following links:

|===
| Services | url 

| Seafile | sea.example.com 
| SOGo | mx.example.com/SOGo
| Mailcow Admin/UI | mx.example.com
| Welcome Webpage | example.com 
|===

===== Dynamic DNS
With the following API request you can set a IPv4 or IPv6 address.
[source,bash]
----
https://ns.example.eu/update?secret=<yourpw>&domain=home&addr=1.2.3.4
----

* `secret`: The shared secret set before
* `domain`: The subdomain to your configured domain, in this example it would result in home.dyndns.example.com. 
* `addr`: IPv4 or IPv6 address of the name record

Then you can reach the registered IP under home.dyndns.example.com (1.2.3.4).

 https://www.davd.io/build-your-own-dynamic-dns-in-5-minutes/[Here] you can read more about it.

=== Troubleshooting/Debugging
You can view the logs of the individual containers simply with the following command:
[source,bash]
----
docker logs -f container_name
----

== Backup
As backup system I use borg backup, which runs on an intel nuc at my home.

I reach the intel nuc via ssh and the previously established dynamic dns service, to reach it i just had to forward the ssh port in my router settings to nuc.

IMPORTANT: You should secure your SSH Login. Among others, I use a public key authentication.


.One time initialization
[source,bash]
----
borg init --encryption=repokey ssh://serverbackup@home.dyndns.example.com:22/./backup
----

The backup is performed once a day (cronjob) and is based on the following script. Which should be understandable on the basis of the comments.

./backup/backup.sh
[source,bash]
----
#!/usr/bin/env bash

## Create log folder
mkdir -p /var/log/borg

##
## export enviroment variables
##

## Path to SSH Key
export BORG_RSH="ssh -i /root/.ssh/serverbackup_ed25519"

## Borg Repository Password
export BORG_PASSPHRASE="YOUR_BORG_Password"

##
## set the variables
##

## log file and path
LOG="/var/log/borg/backup.log"

## Backup user on your remote machine (intel nuc in my case)
BACKUP_USER="serverbackup"

## Backup location (/home/serverbackup/backup)
REPOSITORY_DIR="./backup"

## put everything together and hand over the domain under which the backup server can be reached 
REPOSITORY="ssh://${BACKUP_USER}@home.dyndns.example.com:22/${REPOSITORY_DIR}"

##
## Write output to logfile 
##

exec > >(tee -i ${LOG})
exec 2>&1

echo "###### Backup started: $(date) ######"

## Create list of installed software
dpkg --get-selections > /backup/software.list

## I use the path /backup to store the mailcow backups and the seafile mysqldump's
## create needed folders if not exist
mkdir -p /backup/seafile_database
mkdir -p /backup/mailcow/

## Mailcow Backup
## https://mailcow.github.io/mailcow-dockerized-docs/b_n_r_backup/
export MAILCOW_BACKUP_LOCATION=/backup/mailcow
/root/docker/mailcow-dockerized/helper-scripts/backup_and_restore.sh backup all

## Seafile
## https://manual.seafile.com/deploy/deploy_with_docker.html
docker exec -it seafile-mysql mysqldump  -uroot --opt ccnet_db > /backup/seafile_database/$(date +%F_%R)_ccnet_db.sql
docker exec -it seafile-mysql mysqldump  -uroot --opt seafile_db > /backup/seafile_database/$(date +%F_%R)_seafile_db.sql
docker exec -it seafile-mysql mysqldump  -uroot --opt seahub_db > /backup/seafile_database/$(date +%F_%R)_seahub_db.sql

echo "Transfer Files ..."

## Here files and folders which are backed up and which are excluded are configured.
borg create -v --stats                   	\
    $REPOSITORY::'{now:%Y-%m-%d_%H:%M}'  	\
    /root                                	\
    /etc                                 	\
    /backup                              	\
    /var/spool/cron                      	\
    --exclude /root/docker/iota_iri/data 	\
    --exclude /root/docker/mailcow-dockerized	\
    --exclude /sys                       	\
    --exclude /var/run                   	\
    --exclude /run                       	\
    --exclude /lost+found                	\
    --exclude /mnt                       	


echo "###### Backup finished: $(date) ######"


## Cleanup
borg prune -v ${REPOSITORY}	 		\
	--keep-daily=7 				\
	--keep-weekly=4 			\
	--keep-monthly=6

rm -R /backup/mailcow/*
rm -R /backup/seafile_database/*
----

Borg Backup is also very well documented https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html[here].


This Script was shamelessly stolen by https://wiki.hetzner.de/index.php/BorgBackup[Hetzner] and adapted by me.
